ANDROID (fully phone-based, no PC needed to play)
=======================================================

This sets things up so the game, the toy bridge, and Intiface Central all
run on your phone - no PC involved once it's set up. The one-time patching
step below does need a PC (or see the Termux note at the bottom if you'd
rather do literally everything on the phone).

PREFER A GUI OVER THE COMMAND LINE FOR STEP 1? If you're on Windows, Linux,
or macOS and already have ToyLauncher (see LAUNCHER.txt), its "Android" tab
does exactly what Step 1 below does - browse to your APK, optionally browse
to a replacement data file and/or a mods folder, click "Patch APK". Same
underlying tool (ApkPatcher), just without the command line. Steps 2-4
below are unchanged either way.

WHAT YOU NEED
----------------
  - Your own Android build of a compatible game (an .apk - Wife's Bedroom,
    ModRoom, or a compatible mod). We don't provide this - you already have
    to have it.
  - A JDK on your PC for the one-time patch step (free, from
    https://adoptium.net - any recent version). Not needed on the phone.
  - Intiface Central for Android (Play Store, or the .apk from
    https://intiface.com/central/).
  - Termux (for running the toy bridge on your phone) - from F-Droid or
    GitHub, NOT the old abandoned Play Store version.

STEP 1 - Patch your APK (on a PC, one time)
------------------------------------------------
  1. Copy your game's .apk to your PC if it isn't already there.
  2. Run:
       ApkPatcher.exe your-game.apk
     It'll find the game's data file inside the APK automatically, patch
     it, repackage the APK, and sign it with a new key (needed because
     modifying an APK invalidates its original signature - this is normal
     and expected, not a red flag). Output: your-game-toybridge.apk, right
     next to the original. Your original file is never touched.
  3. First run will also generate a signing key (apkpatcher.keystore) next
     to ApkPatcher.exe - keep that around if you'll patch more APKs later,
     it gets reused automatically.

STEP 2 - Install the patched APK on your phone
----------------------------------------------------
  1. Copy the -toybridge.apk file to your phone (USB, cloud drive, email
     to yourself, whatever's easiest).
  2. If the original game is already installed, uninstall it first - the
     patched version has a different signature, so Android won't treat it
     as an update to the original, it needs a clean install.
  3. Open the file on your phone to install it. You'll need "install from
     unknown sources" enabled for whatever app you use to open it (Files,
     a browser, etc.) - Android will prompt you for this if it's not
     already on.

STEP 3 - Set up the toy bridge in Termux
----------------------------------------------
The bridge itself needs a real Linux environment to run in, which Termux
doesn't provide out of the box (it uses Android's own C library, which is
close to but not the same as regular Linux) - so this uses Termux's
"proot-distro" feature to run a small real Linux distro inside Termux.
This is a well-established, common Termux technique, not something unusual
to this project.

  1. Install Termux, open it.
  2. One-time setup:
       pkg update
       pkg install proot-distro
       proot-distro install ubuntu
     If this fails with something like "ImportError: dlopen failed: library
     libssl.so.3 not found", Termux's Python and its openssl package are out
     of sync - fix it and retry:
       pkg upgrade -y
       pkg install -y openssl
     Still failing after that? Force a reinstall of both:
       pkg reinstall -y python openssl
  3. Log into the Ubuntu environment - no username or password needed, this
     just drops you straight into a root shell inside it:
       proot-distro login ubuntu
     Your prompt changing (usually to something like root@localhost:~#) is
     how you know it worked.
  4. Get the linux-arm64 ButtplugBridge binary (from
     cross-platform/linux-arm64/ButtplugBridge in this folder) into that
     Ubuntu shell. The most reliable way, since Android's shared-storage
     permissions and file-transfer apps can be finicky: serve it from your
     PC and download it directly.
       On your PC, in the folder containing that ButtplugBridge file:
         python -m http.server 8000
       (leave that running) Then, on your phone, connected to the SAME
       Wi-Fi as your PC, inside the Ubuntu shell from step 3:
         curl -O http://<your-pc's-LAN-IP>:8000/ButtplugBridge
       (find your PC's LAN IP with `ipconfig` on Windows, look for the
       Wi-Fi adapter's IPv4 Address). Stop the PC's http.server (Ctrl+C)
       once the download finishes.
     Alternative if you'd rather not run anything on your PC: copy the file
     to your phone's Downloads folder any way you like (USB, cloud drive,
     a file-sharing app), run `termux-setup-storage` once in Termux (NOT
     inside the Ubuntu shell) to grant storage access, then from inside
     Ubuntu copy it from wherever it landed under ~/storage/ (paths with
     spaces need quoting, e.g. cp ~/storage/downloads/"some folder/file" .)
  5. Still inside the Ubuntu shell:
       chmod +x ButtplugBridge
       ./ButtplugBridge --profile easy
     (profile names: default, easy, mid, hard, mideasy, midhard, custom -
     see PROFILES.txt)

STEP 4 - Connect everything and play
------------------------------------------
  1. Open Intiface Central, connect your toy, make sure its server is
     started. (You already know this part works well on mobile.)
  2. Make sure ButtplugBridge (from Step 3) is running in your Ubuntu/
     Termux session and shows "connected to Intiface Central."
  3. Launch the patched game and play. As soon as a scene is active, your
     toy should respond.

You'll want Termux running in the background while you play the game -
Android may try to kill background apps aggressively to save battery;
if the bridge stops responding, check that Termux hasn't been closed out
by the system (some phones have aggressive battery optimization that needs
to be disabled specifically for Termux - look for "battery optimization"
or "auto-start management" in your phone's settings).

WANT A PC MOD (LIKE MODROOM) ON ANDROID INSTEAD OF THE VANILLA GAME?
--------------------------------------------------------------------
ApkPatcher can also swap in a completely different data file before patching,
using --replace-data. This is how you get a PC mod's content (not just the
official game) running on Android - point it at your own copy of the
official APK plus your own copy of the mod's data.win, and it builds an APK
with that mod's content plus toy telemetry. Nothing about the mod or the
original game is bundled with this tool - both files are ones you already
have, and the output only ever goes to your own machine.

  ApkPatcher your-game.apk --replace-data "path\to\ModRoom\data.win"

Everything else about Steps 1-4 above is unchanged - this just changes what
ends up inside the patched APK. Whenever the mod you're using gets updated
(a new ModRoom version, for instance), just re-run this same command
pointing at the new data.win to get a fresh APK - you don't need to redo
anything else.

WANT CUSTOM CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE/TEXTURE PACKS TOO (ModRoom's custom_wives,
custom_futas, custom_bedrooms, dialogue_packs, texture_packs folders)?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
These do NOT work automatically, even with --replace-data above. On PC these
are plain folders sitting next to the game's .exe that you can drop mods
into any time. Android doesn't have an equivalent writable location - it
was confirmed directly (by patching in a one-line diagnostic that logs
GameMaker's working_directory to the device log) that on Android,
working_directory resolves to the APK's own bundled assets/ folder, a
read-only location baked in at build time. There's no folder on the phone
you can just drop a new mod into later - it has to be packaged into the APK
itself, at the same time you patch it.

Use --include-mods for this, pointing it at whatever folder directly
contains those five subfolders (your ModRoom install folder, for example):

  ApkPatcher your-game.apk --replace-data "path\to\ModRoom\data.win" --include-mods "path\to\ModRoom"

Whichever of the five folders exist are copied into the APK. This is
everyone's OWN choice of mods each time they run the tool - nothing about
any specific mod ships with ApkPatcher itself, same as everything else in
this project.

ALSO RUNNING A ModRoom-STYLE MOD? YOU NEED --touch-controls TOO
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
ModRoom (and mods based on it) relies on right-click and mouse-wheel
scrolling for some menus - inputs that have no touchscreen equivalent at
all. Without this patch, some settings menus are simply impossible to
interact with on Android, AND the custom wife/futa picker's CUSTOM button
stays permanently disabled, even with --include-mods bundling the mod
folders correctly - the game's own folder-scanning code doesn't work
against files bundled inside an Android APK, so it silently finds nothing.
This does NOT affect the official vanilla game, which has no menus that
depend on right-click/scroll-wheel in the first place.

Run this as a SECOND pass, on the output of your first command above (it
can't be combined with --replace-data/--include-mods in one run):

  ApkPatcher your-game-toybridge.apk --touch-controls

This adds a long-press (holds ~450ms) as a right-click equivalent, drag-to-
scroll for scrollable menus, and fixes the custom character picker to
actually find bundled mods. (The GUI Launcher's Android tab does both
passes for you automatically behind one "Fix touch controls and custom
character selection" checkbox - see LAUNCHER.txt.)

Custom WIFE characters specifically: only wife mod packs built as a full
ModRoom-compatible "rig" (matching the file layout of the bundled
custom_wife_template) actually render correctly via the CUSTOM button -
this is true on PC too, not just Android. A wife pack built differently
(a different, simpler file-naming convention some downloaded packs use)
may become selectable but will render visibly broken (chopped-up body
parts, garbled facial expressions) because it's missing artwork the game's
layered rendering system requires - that's a limitation of the specific
mod pack's own content, not something --touch-controls or any patch can
fix. Custom FUTA characters aren't affected by this - the futa side
already supports both file-naming conventions.

CONFIRMED WORKING (tested on a real Android device/emulator): ModRoom
V3.2's data.win swapped into the official Wife's Bedroom APK installs,
launches, and renders correctly (title screen shows "VANILLA 1.1 + MODROOM
V3", confirming it's genuinely running the mod's content), stays stable
with no crashes, and correctly detects/re-applies the toy telemetry patch.
With --include-mods and --touch-controls both applied: right-click menus
work via long-press, and the custom futa picker correctly loads every
real custom futa pack tested (15 of 15 actual character packs - the one
non-loading folder in that test turned out to be a dialogue-only mod with
no character art at all, so it correctly doesn't count). Custom wife packs
built as a proper compatible rig (like the bundled custom_wife_template)
load and render correctly the same way; wife packs using the simpler,
non-rig convention become selectable but render broken, per the caveat
above - this was tested and is a known, permanent limitation of those
specific packs' content, not a bug in this tool. Drag-to-scroll has been
patched but a user report that it wasn't working as expected is still
being looked into as of this writing - the pill menu specifically now
sidesteps that entirely instead of depending on it: --touch-controls
lays out all 14 pills as two columns of 7 (nothing can run off-screen
regardless of device layout), verified on a real Android build (see
NOTES.txt for the details, including why 2 columns replaced an earlier
single-tall-column attempt). Other scrollable menus (custom wife/futa/
background pickers) still rely on the not-yet-fixed drag-to-scroll.

TROUBLESHOOTING
------------------
  ApkPatcher can't find Java
    Install a JDK from https://adoptium.net and make sure it's on your
    PATH, then try again.

  "App not installed" / install fails on the phone
    Almost always the old original version is still installed with a
    different signature - uninstall it first, then try the patched one.

  ApkPatcher says "not a compatible game"
    Either the wrong file was selected, or this genuinely isn't a
    supported game/mod - see NOTES.txt for which ones are confirmed to
    work.

  proot-distro install ubuntu fails with "libssl.so.3 not found"
    Termux's Python and openssl packages are out of sync - see Step 3
    above for the fix (pkg upgrade + pkg install openssl).

  cp says "cannot stat" with a bunch of unrelated-looking word fragments
    Your file path has spaces in it and wasn't quoted, so the shell split
    it into multiple arguments. See the file-transfer note in Step 4 -
    either quote the spacey part, or just use the http.server/curl method,
    which avoids the whole problem.

  Toy doesn't respond
    Same checklist as every other platform: is Intiface Central's server
    actually started, is the toy shown as connected there, is
    ButtplugBridge showing "connected" rather than stuck retrying, and is
    Termux still actually running (not killed in the background)?

HONEST STATUS
-----------------
The patch itself (Steps 1-2) has been verified for real: patched, re-signed,
installed, and launched a real copy of the game on an Android emulator, and
it ran correctly (same startup sequence seen on every other platform, no
crash). The --replace-data option (swapping in a PC mod's data.win, like
ModRoom) was also verified for real the same way.

Steps 3-4 have now been walked through live with a real person setting up
Termux on their own phone, start to finish through getting ButtplugBridge
downloaded and executable inside the Ubuntu proot environment - the libssl
fix and the http.server/curl file-transfer method above both come directly
from real snags hit and resolved during that session, not guesswork. What
hasn't been separately confirmed yet is a toy actually responding through
that exact chain (Termux bridge -> Intiface Central -> toy, all on one
phone) - Intiface Central on mobile itself is confirmed working separately
by the person this was built for, and ButtplugBridge's Intiface-connection
code is identical to the Windows/Linux builds (which are confirmed working),
so this is expected to work, but hasn't been watched succeed end-to-end in
one sitting yet.
